[VIT-3355] Add workflow docs (#99)
tryVital/docs: docs/lab/workflow/create-test.mdx

---
title: "Creating a Lab Test (Beta)"
---

Vital provides a way to create your own lab tests. These are made up of:

1. One or more marker IDs.
2. The lab ID.
3. The collection method: `testkit`, `walk_in_test`, or `at_home_phlebotomy`.
4. The sample type: `dried_blood_spot` or `serum`.

> Once a Lab Test is created and approved, you can use it when making a order.
> 
> <Warning>
>   When you create a Lab Test, it is not immediately available. We need to
>   validate and approve it on our side, before you can use it when making orders.
> </Warning>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Warning>
  A Lab Test is not immediately available to order upon creation through the API. It would
  remain unactivated until it has been reviewed by Vital.
</Warning>
```

consolidation

Reviewer 2: A lab test is not ordered. A lab test is associated with an order. A Lab test is a panel (i.e. a bundle of markers to be tested).

---
title: "Creating a Lab Test (Beta)"
---

Vital provides a way to create your own lab tests. These are made up of:

> 1. One or more markers' ids.

Reviewer 3: We will stick with biomarkers or markers?

> 1. One or more markers' ids.
> 2. The lab id.
> 3. The collection method (`testkit`, `walk_in_test`, `at_home_phlebotomy`).
> 4. The sample type (`dried_blood_spot`, `serum`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. One or more marker IDs.
2. The lab ID.
3. The collection method: `testkit`, `walk_in_test`, or `at_home_phlebotomy`.
4. The sample type: `dried_blood_spot` or `serum`.
```

> Once a Lab test is created and approved, you can use it when making a order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a Lab Test is created and approved, you can use it when making a order.
```

<Warning>
  When you create a Lab Test, it is not immediately available. We need to
  validate and approve it on our side, before you can use it when making orders.
</Warning>

### Example

To begin, make a request to our [labs endpoint](/api-reference/lab-testing/labs), to get all available labs.

```json Get all available labs
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "slug": "labcorp",
    "name": "LabCorp",
    "first_line_address": "123 Main St",
    "city": "San Francisco",
    "zipcode": "91789"
  }
]
```

Once you've picked a lab, you can fetch all available biomarkers. This is done via our [biomarkers endpoint](/api-reference/lab-testing/biomarkers).

```json Get all biomarkers
{

>   "markers": [

Reviewer 3: Same question as before, the endpoint says biomarkers, but we are returning a list of markers.

    {
      "id": 1,
      "name": "17-OH Progesterone LCMS",
      "slug": "17-oh-progesterone-lcms",
      "description": "17-OH Progesterone LCMS",
      "lab_id": 1,
      "provider_id": "070085",
      "type": null,
      "unit": null,
      "price": "N/A"
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "name": "ABO Grouping",
      "slug": "abo-grouping",
      "description": "ABO Grouping",
      "lab_id": 1,
      "provider_id": "006056",
      "type": null,
      "unit": null,
      "price": "N/A"
    }
  ],
  "total": 2,
  "page": 1,
  "size": 2
}
```

> With this information, you can create a lab test using [this endpoint](/api-reference/lab-testing/post-test).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this information, you can create a Lab Test using [`POST /v3/lab_tests`](/api-reference/lab-testing/post-test). Note that the resulting Lab Test is not activated immediately — Vital will need to review the Lab Test before activating the Lab Test for your team.
```

Author: I think this is redudant information

As an example, let's say you wanted a test from `Labcorp`:

```python Create a new test
from vital import Client

client = Client(api_key, "sandbox")

data = client.LabTests.create_test(
  name="Example test",
  description="Example test",
  lab_id=1,
  method="at_home_phlebomoty",
  sample_type="serum",
  markers=[1, 2],
)
```

Once your lab test creation is successful you will receive the following response:

```json

> [

Reviewer 3: Is it possible to create multiple tests in the same request, so that we need to return a list of them?

  {
    "lab_test": {
      "name": "Example test",
      "description": "Example test",
      "sample_type": "serum",
      "method": "at_home_phlebomoty",
      "price": 10,
      "is_active": false,
      "lab": {
        "slug": "labcorp",
        "name": "LabCorp",
        "first_line_address": "123 Main St",
        "city": "San Francisco",
        "zipcode": "91789"
      },
      "markers": [
        {
          "name": "17-OH Progesterone LCMS",
          "slug": "17-oh-progesterone-lcms",
          "description": "17-OH Progesterone LCMS"
        },
        {
          "name": "ABO Grouping",
          "slug": "abo-grouping",
          "description": "ABO Grouping"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
]
```

> Do notice that `is_active` is set to `false`. You can verify its status by calling the [lab tests endpoint](/api-reference/lab-testing/tests).

Reviewer 3: Can we join this and the previous warning in some way? Think it would make it clearer what the `is_active` flag is referring to when first creating a lab test.

Author: I think that would make it look weird since the active flag hasnt been addressed yet
